Proposal: manifest key trial_tokens (#598)
hober/web-extensions: proposals/manifest_trial_tokens.md

   and charaxter returns which could affect HTTP header serealization and
   parsing

#### Manifest parsing algorithm
 1. if `trial_tokens` is not present, return
 2. if `trial_tokens` is not an array or if `trial_tokens` is an empty array,
    (optionally) log a benign warning and return
 3. for every element `token` of `trial_tokens`:
   3.1. (optionally) if the maximum number of accepted tokens is reached,
        skip all other tokens
   3.2. if `token` is not a string, skip it and (optionally) log a benign
        warning
   3.2. if `token` is an empty string, skip it and (optionally) log a benign
        warning
   3.3. (optionally) if `token` is too long to be parsed, skip it and
        (optionally) log a benign warning
   3.4. if token has been encountered before, skip it and (optionally) log
        a benign warning
   3.5. (optionally) attempt to parse the token and validate it. If validation
        fails, skip the token and (optionally) log a benign warning.
        Note: browsers may disregard token expiration errors, if they are not
        sure about the corrctness of system timestamp at the time of token
        validation

>    3.6. append token to the collection of accepted tokens

Reviewer: GitHub is not formatting these as sub-items for some reason (in preview mode).

Author: Thanks, I fixed it.

   and charaxter returns which could affect HTTP header serialization and
   parsing

#### Manifest parsing algorithm
 1. if `trial_tokens` is not present, return
 2. if `trial_tokens` is not an array or if `trial_tokens` is an empty array,
    (optionally) log a benign warning and return
 3. for every element `token` of `trial_tokens`:
    1. (optionally) if the maximum number of accepted tokens is reached,
       skip all other tokens
    2. if `token` is not a string, skip it and (optionally) log a benign
       warning
    3. if `token` is an empty string, skip it and (optionally) log a benign
       warning
    4. (optionally) if `token` is too long to be parsed, skip it and
       (optionally) log a benign warning
    5. if token has been encountered before, skip it and (optionally) log
       a benign warning
    6. (optionally) attempt to parse the token and validate it. If validation
       fails, skip the token and (optionally) log a benign warning.
       Note: browsers may disregard token expiration errors if they are not
       sure about the correctness of system timestamp at the time of token

>        validation

Reviewer 2: We don't necessarily need to include a note to this effect in the proposal, but it's worth noting that token validation MAY be an asynchronous process that requires exchanging information with a trial token management service.

Author: I added the following:
> Browsers may validate tokens asynchronously, if their implementation requires this.

    7. append token to the collection of accepted tokens
 4. if at least one token is accepted in step 3, save the token collection in
    parsed manifest under `trial_tokens` key

### New Permissions

No new permissions.

### Manifest File Changes

Add new manifest member called `trial_tokens` which is a non-empty array of
non-empty strings representing trial tokens.

## Security and Privacy

### Exposed Sensitive Data

This new key does not expose any sensitive data by itself, but it may activate
security- and privacy-critical code paths in the browser itself.

### Abuse Mitigations

Trial tokens system already incorporate some degree of abuse mitigations:
 1. Browser vendor signs every token for every origin and feature.
 2. Browser vendor audits every trial feature similarly to a regular feature.
 3. Browser vendor can invalidate any token individually or all tokens for
    a particular feature remotely. Such invalidation scheme is more powerful
    than existing method of compiling extension id allow- and block-list for
    a feature at compilation time.

### Additional Security Considerations

> This new manifest key contains values which will be inserted into headers of
> local HTTP-like responses. Browsers must ensure that the provided tokens can

Reviewer 2: The phrasing of this section may be overly prescriptive: Chrome's implementation of origin trials is header based, but other browsers MAY use a different approach. This suggestion attempts to strike a more neutral position. If this suggestion is adopted, additional massaging may be required to make this section read well.

```suggestion
This new manifest key contains values which will be consumed by the browser's
experimental API trial system. Browsers may need to take special care to ensure
that provided tokens do not violate the expectations of these systems.

For example, Chromium's trial system exposes tokens in headers of local
HTTP-like responses. As a result, it must ensure that the provided tokens can
```

Author: I applied the suggestion verbatim.

# Proposal: Manifest key trial_tokens

**Summary**

> The manifest key to include origin and teprecation trial tokens.

Reviewer 3: s/teprecation/depreciation/

Author: Thanks!

 3. Browser vendor can invalidate any token individually or all tokens for
    a particular feature remotely. Such invalidation scheme is more powerful
    than existing method of compiling extension id allow- and block-list for
    a feature at compilation time.

### Additional Security Considerations

This new manifest key contains values which will be inserted into headers of
local HTTP-like responses. Browsers must ensure that the provided tokens can
not escape header serealization. Browsers also must ensure that tokens do not
cause headers to exceed implementation-specific limits so that response is
processed in  different way (e.g., adding a large number of tokens must not
cuase removal of security headers like CSP).

## Alternatives

### Existing Workarounds

### Open Web API

Document contexts can activate tokens by
[embedding them in DOM](<meta http-equiv="origin-trial" content="TOKEN_GOES_HERE">)
`<meta>` tag, both statically and dynamically. Extension service workers can
spawn documents and with embedded tokens and proxy calls to trial features via
the said document.

## Implementation Notes

Please see "Manifest parsing algorithm" section.

> ## Future Work

Reviewer 3: Should this section be removed?

Author: Thanks!
